Images/Readme.md, before:

# Images Folder

This folder holds that images that will be loaded by the program if show map is enabled.

Currently these are just placeholder images that will likely be replaced in a later version.

All the images are bmp and 24px by 24px.

## Credit

### Coin.bmp

This picture represents the coins of the game.

The coin itself is a Mario Coin. But the image was designed by [Sandro Pereira] (http://sandrodcpereira.deviantart.com/?rnrd=50936). You can find the original [here] (http://findicons.com/icon/423492/retro_coin).

This file was also converted from a png to a bmp.

### Error.bmp

This picture is used if an unknown tile is on the map.

This picture was created by [Hopstarter](http://hopstarter.deviantart.com/) you can find the original [here] (http://www.iconarchive.com/show/button-icons-by-hopstarter/Button-Close-icon.html).

### Monster.bmp

This picture is used to represent the monsters.

This picture was created by [SpoonGraphics](http://blog.spoongraphics.co.uk/) you can find the original [here] (http://www.iconarchive.com/show/monster-icons-by-spoon-graphics/Green-Monster-icon.html).

### Player.bmp

This picture is used to represent the player.

This is a single frame from the animation picture found [here] (http://www.2dgameartguru.com/2011/12/game-assets.html)

### Pole.bmp

This picture is used to represent the pole marking the end of the level.

This is a modified version of the picture found [here] (http://www.mariowiki.com/images/a/a4/Flagpole_secret.png).

### Sky.bmp

This picture is used to represent empty space tiles.

This picture I created (since it is just a white picutre).

### Wall.bmp

This picture is used to represent the wall tiles.

This picture is a scaled down version of the one found [here] (http://www.it.murdoch.edu.au/units/ICT207/nominations/previous/Tavern%20Defender/executable/textures/brick%20paving.bmp)

Commit message:

Update to v4.1.0-rc.1
03 September 2015
Released version 4.1.0-rc.1

Change log:
-Updated: gitignore
-Added: Licenses for the libraries we use.
-Fixed: Writing messages to screen
-Added: clsScreen::writemessage for keeping that section seprate.
-Added: More credits
-Added: SDL2 TTF Library
-Added: SDL2 Image library
-Added: Text message that appears on screen.
-Changed: BMP to PNG files
-Changed: Wall color slightly (darker)
-Changed: Default screen width slightly bigger

Images/Readme.md, after:

# Images Folder

This folder holds that images that will be loaded by the program if show map is enabled.

Currently these are just placeholder images that will likely be replaced in a later version.

If you are not okay with us using your image for this project, and / or we are not adhering to the license under which your image was released, please let us know through an issue, or a message and we will work on fixing it as soon as possible.

All the images are png and 24px by 24px.

## Credit

### Coin.png

This picture represents the coins of the game.

The coin itself is a Mario Coin. But the image was designed by [Sandro Pereira] (http://sandrodcpereira.deviantart.com/?rnrd=50936). You can find the original [here] (http://findicons.com/icon/423492/retro_coin).

### Error.png

This picture is used if an unknown tile is on the map.

This picture was created by [Hopstarter](http://hopstarter.deviantart.com/) you can find the original [here] (http://www.iconarchive.com/show/button-icons-by-hopstarter/Button-Close-icon.html).

### Monster.png

This picture is used to represent the monsters.

This picture was created by [SpoonGraphics](http://blog.spoongraphics.co.uk/) you can find the original [here] (http://www.iconarchive.com/show/monster-icons-by-spoon-graphics/Green-Monster-icon.html).

### Player.png

This picture is used to represent the player.

This is a single frame from the animation picture found [here] (http://www.2dgameartguru.com/2011/12/game-assets.html)

### Pole.png

This picture is used to represent the pole marking the end of the level.

This is a modified version of the picture found [here] (http://www.mariowiki.com/images/a/a4/Flagpole_secret.png).

### Sky.png

This picture is used to represent empty space tiles.

This picture I created (since it is just a white picutre).

### Wall.png

This picture is used to represent the wall tiles.

This picture is a scaled down version of the one found [here] (http://www.it.murdoch.edu.au/units/ICT207/nominations/previous/Tavern%20Defender/executable/textures/brick%20paving.png)
